-- 1. Inserting 5 users
INSERT INTO users (username, email, password) VALUES
('johndoe', 'johndoe@example.com', 'password123'),
('janedoe', 'janedoe@example.com', 'password123'),
('mikelee', 'mikelee@example.com', 'password123'),
('sarahsmith', 'sarahsmith@example.com', 'password123'),
('davidjohnson', 'davidjohnson@example.com', 'password123');

-- 2. Inserting 10 books with larger descriptions
INSERT INTO books (title, author, description, published_date) VALUES
('To Kill a Mockingbird', 'Harper Lee', 'To Kill a Mockingbird is a gripping, heart-wrenching, and wholly remarkable tale of coming-of-age in a South poisoned by virulent prejudice. The unforgettable characters in this novel—Scout Finch, her brother Jem, and their father, Atticus Finch—are among the most cherished in American literature. With compassion and humor, the book explores the moral nature of human beings and the complexities of justice, race, and community.', '1960-07-11'),
('1984', 'George Orwell', '1984 is a dystopian social science fiction novel and cautionary tale, set in a totalitarian state where the Party, led by the omnipresent Big Brother, seeks to control every aspect of life. Through the experiences of Winston Smith, a low-ranking member of the Party, the novel explores themes of surveillance, censorship, and the distortion of truth, making it one of the most significant works on totalitarianism and political repression.', '1949-06-08'),
('Pride and Prejudice', 'Jane Austen', 'Pride and Prejudice follows Elizabeth Bennet, one of five sisters, as she navigates the complex web of societal expectations, family obligations, and romance. Set in the early 19th century, the novel critiques the limitations and expectations placed on women while exploring themes of love, marriage, and class. Elizabeth’s interactions with the brooding yet honorable Mr. Darcy form the heart of this beloved classic, highlighting personal growth and the importance of understanding and compassion.', '1813-01-28'),
('The Great Gatsby', 'F. Scott Fitzgerald', 'The Great Gatsby is a reflection of the Jazz Age in the United States during the Roaring Twenties, exploring themes of wealth, excess, and the American Dream. The story, narrated by Nick Carraway, centers around the enigmatic Jay Gatsby and his obsessive love for Daisy Buchanan. Through Nick’s eyes, readers experience the illusion of glamour and the moral decay beneath the surface, culminating in a tragic ending that critiques the unattainability of the American Dream.', '1925-04-10'),
('Moby-Dick', 'Herman Melville', 'Moby-Dick tells the tale of Ishmael, a sailor aboard the whaling ship Pequod, led by the obsessive Captain Ahab. Ahab’s singular mission is to hunt down the elusive white whale, Moby Dick, who had previously maimed him. This epic novel explores complex themes of fate, revenge, and the struggle between man and nature, and it stands as a profound meditation on existence, obsession, and humanity’s place in the universe.', '1851-10-18'),
('The Catcher in the Rye', 'J.D. Salinger', 'The Catcher in the Rye follows Holden Caulfield, a disaffected teenager, as he wanders through New York City after being expelled from his prep school. The novel captures Holden’s alienation, confusion, and disillusionment with the adult world, making it an enduring voice for teenage rebellion and existential questioning. Through his interactions with various people, Holden reflects on the loss of innocence, the pains of growing up, and the search for authenticity in a phony world.', '1951-07-16'),
('Brave New World', 'Aldous Huxley', 'Brave New World imagines a futuristic society that is superficially perfect but is actually defined by a deep sense of repression and control. In this world, happiness is mandated through the use of a drug called soma, and social stability is maintained by genetic engineering and conditioning. Through the experiences of Bernard Marx, Lenina Crowne, and John the Savage, Huxley critiques the loss of individuality and the cost of utopia, questioning whether true freedom can ever exist in a controlled society.', '1932-09-01'),
('Crime and Punishment', 'Fyodor Dostoevsky', 'Crime and Punishment is a psychological drama that explores the moral dilemmas of Rodion Raskolnikov, a former student who plans and commits the murder of a pawnbroker. The novel delves deeply into themes of guilt, redemption, and the human psyche as Raskolnikov grapples with his conscience and justifies his crime as a means to achieve greater good. The work is a profound study of morality, law, and the nature of suffering.', '1866-01-01'),
('The Hobbit', 'J.R.R. Tolkien', 'The Hobbit follows Bilbo Baggins, a hobbit who lives a quiet life in the Shire, as he embarks on an unexpected adventure. Along with a group of dwarves and the wizard Gandalf, Bilbo sets out to reclaim a treasure guarded by the fearsome dragon Smaug. The journey takes him across dangerous lands and into encounters with trolls, goblins, and elves. Tolkien’s novel is a charming tale of bravery, friendship, and the transformation of an unlikely hero.', '1937-09-21'),
('The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring', 'J.R.R. Tolkien', 'The Fellowship of the Ring is the first volume in Tolkien’s epic The Lord of the Rings series. The story follows Frodo Baggins as he is entrusted with the One Ring, a powerful artifact that must be destroyed to prevent the Dark Lord Sauron from conquering Middle-earth. Along with a fellowship of companions, Frodo sets off on a dangerous journey to Mount Doom. The novel explores themes of friendship, courage, and the eternal battle between good and evil.', '1954-07-29');

-- 3. Inserting 20 reviews
INSERT INTO reviews (user_id, book_id, rating, review) VALUES
(1, 1, 5, 'To Kill a Mockingbird is a deeply moving and thought-provoking book. Harper Lee’s portrayal of the racial and social issues in the American South is timeless and still incredibly relevant today. The characters are richly developed, and the story beautifully balances heartache and hope.'),
(2, 2, 4, '1984 is an unsettling novel that perfectly captures the dangers of authoritarianism and surveillance. The bleak world George Orwell creates feels disturbingly plausible. Though it can be difficult to read at times, its relevance remains as powerful as ever.'),
(3, 3, 5, 'Pride and Prejudice is a perfect blend of wit, romance, and social commentary. Jane Austen’s writing is sharp and insightful, and Elizabeth Bennet is one of the most beloved heroines in literature. The chemistry between Elizabeth and Darcy is unforgettable.'),
(4, 4, 5, 'The Great Gatsby is a haunting portrayal of the American Dream and the emptiness that lies behind it. Fitzgerald’s prose is lyrical, and the characters are complex and morally ambiguous. A timeless classic that explores the illusions of wealth and success.'),
(5, 5, 4, 'Moby-Dick is a dense, philosophical exploration of obsession and revenge. While it can be slow at times, the novel’s depth and its exploration of the human condition make it worth the read. Captain Ahab is one of the most memorable literary characters.'),
(1, 6, 4, 'The Catcher in the Rye captures the voice of adolescent rebellion and confusion. Holden’s isolation and disillusionment are palpable, and his struggles to find meaning in an indifferent world are relatable to anyone who has ever questioned the norms of society.'),
(2, 7, 5, 'Brave New World is a chilling exploration of a future where happiness is achieved through control and conformity. Huxley’s vision of a society where free will is sacrificed for stability is as relevant today as it was when the book was first published.'),
(3, 8, 5, 'Crime and Punishment is an intense psychological exploration of guilt, morality, and redemption. Dostoevsky’s writing is rich with philosophical insights, and Raskolnikov’s internal struggles make for a deeply compelling narrative.'),
(4, 9, 4, 'The Hobbit is a delightful adventure story with a touch of whimsy. Bilbo’s transformation from a timid hobbit to a courageous hero is inspiring, and the world-building is incredibly rich. A fantastic story for readers of all ages.'),
(5, 10, 5, 'The Fellowship of the Ring is an epic start to an incredible journey. Tolkien’s world-building is unparalleled, and the characters are rich and multidimensional. The story is filled with tension, friendship, and an overarching sense of adventure.'),
(1, 2, 4, '1984 is an excellent critique of totalitarian regimes, though it can be a challenging read. Orwell’s dystopian vision is harsh but incredibly impactful. The novel feels both timeless and eerily relevant to today’s world of surveillance.'),
(2, 3, 3, 'Pride and Prejudice is an enjoyable read, but some of the social mores and characters can feel outdated. Still, the romance between Elizabeth and Darcy is timeless, and the wit of the writing shines through.'),
(3, 4, 4, 'The Great Gatsby offers a brilliant commentary on the emptiness of wealth and the fragility of the American Dream. However, the characters’ flaws can be difficult to relate to at times. Still, it’s an essential piece of American literature.'),
(4, 5, 3, 'Moby-Dick is a complex novel with long philosophical sections that can be hard to get through. The story of Ahab’s obsession with the whale is powerful, but it’s not always an easy read.'),
(5, 6, 5, 'The Catcher in the Rye is a poignant exploration of teenage alienation. Holden’s observations about the world and his own struggles with identity make him a relatable and enduring literary figure.'),
(1, 7, 5, 'Brave New World is a hauntingly prescient novel that feels more relevant than ever. Huxley’s vision of a future where people are conditioned to be happy is a chilling warning about the dangers of technological control and loss of individuality.'),
(2, 8, 4, 'Crime and Punishment is a deep psychological thriller that delves into the darkest parts of the human psyche. Raskolnikov’s internal conflict is compelling, but the novel can be overwhelming due to its dense philosophical discussions.'),
(3, 9, 4, 'The Hobbit is a fun and adventurous tale with memorable characters and exciting moments. Though it’s a bit lighter than The Lord of the Rings, it still offers a glimpse into Tolkien’s rich world of Middle-earth.'),
(4, 10, 5, 'The Fellowship of the Ring is a fantastic opening to an epic saga. The world Tolkien creates is rich and immersive, and the friendships and dangers the characters face are thrilling. A must-read for fantasy fans.');
